--- FILE 1 ---
100 Machine Learning Interview Questions and
Answers
1. Please Explain Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, And Deep Learning?
Machine learning is defined as a subset of Artificial Intelligence, and it contains the techniques
which enable computers to sort things out from the data and deliver Artificial Intelligence
applications. Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a branch of computer science that is mainly focused on
building smart machines that can perform certain tasks that mainly require human intelligence. It
is the venture to replicate or simulate human intelligence in machines.
Deep learning can be defined as a class of machine learning algorithms in Artificial Intelligence
that mainly uses multiple layers to cumulatively extract higher-level features from the given raw
input.
2. How Difficult Is Machine Learning?
Machine Learning is huge and comprises a lot of things. Therefore, it will take more than six
months to learn Machine Learning if you spend at least 6-7 hours per day. If you have good
hands-on mathematical and analytical skills, then six months will be sufficient for you.
3. Can You Explain Kernel Trick In An SVM Algorithm?
A Kernel Trick is a method where the Non-Linear data is projected onto a bigger dimension
space in order to make it easy to classify the data where it can be linearly divided by a plane.
4. Can You List Some Of The Popular Cross-Validation Techniques?
1.
Holdout Method: This kind of technique works by removing the part of the training data
set and sending the same to the model that was trained on the remaining data set to get
the required predictions.
2.
K-Fold Cross-Validation: Here, the data is divided into k subsets so that every time, one
among the k subsets can be used as a validation set, and the other k-1 subsets are used
as the training set
3.
Stratified K-Fold Cross-Validation: It works on imbalanced data.
4.
Leave-P-Out Cross-Validation: Here, we leave p data points out of the training data out
of the n data points, then we use the n-p samples to train the model and p points for the
validation set.
5. Differences Between The Bagging And Boosting Algorithms?
Bagging
Boosting
It is a method that merges the same type of 
predictions.
It is a method that merges the different types 
of predictions.
It decreases the variance, not the bias
It decreases the bias, not the variance.
Each and every model receives equal weight
Models are weighed based on performance.
6. What Are Kernels In SVM? Can You List Some Popular Kernels Used In SVM?
The kernel is basically used to set mathematical functions that are used in the Support Vector
Machine by providing the window to manipulate the data. Kernel Function is used to transform
the training set of data so that a non-linear decision surface will be transformed to a linear
equation in a bigger number of dimension spaces.
Some of the popular kernels used in SVM are:
1.
Polynomial kernel
2.
Gaussian kernel
3.
Gaussian radial basis function (RBF)
4.
Laplace RBF kernel
5.
Hyperbolic tangent kernel
6.
Sigmoid kernel
7.
Bessel function of the first kind Kernel
8.
ANOVA radial basis kernel
7. Can You Explain The OOB Error?
An out-of-bag error called OBB error, also known as an out-of-bag estimate, is a technique to
measure the prediction error of random forests, boosted decision trees. Bagging mainly uses
subsampling with replacement to create the training samples for the model to learn from them.
8. Can You Differentiate Between K-Means And KNN Algorithms?
K-Means
KNN algorithms
It is unsupervised machine learning.
It is supervised machine learning.
It is a clustering machine learning algorithm.
It is a classification or regression machine 
learning algorithm.
Its performance is slow.
It performs much better.
It is an eager learner.
It is a lazy learner.
9. Explain The Term Variance Inflation Factor Mean?
Variance inflation factor known as VIF is a measure of the amount of multicollinearity in the
given set of multiple regression variables. The ratio here is calculated for each of the
independent variables. A high VIF means that the associated independent variable is mostly
collinear with the other variables in the model.
10. Explain SVM (Support Vector Machines) In Machine Learning?
Support Vector Machine, known as SVM, is one of the most commonly used Supervised
Learning algorithms that is mainly used for Classification as well as Regression problems. It is
primarily used for Classification problems in Machine Learning. The main aim of the SVM
algorithm is to create the best decision boundary, which segregates n-dimensional space into
classes so that one can easily put the new obtained data point in the correct category in the
future.
11. Differentiate Between Supervised And Unsupervised Machine Learning?
Supervised Model
Unsupervised Model
Here, the algorithm learns on a labeled 
dataset,
Here, it provides unlabeled data.
Here, the models need to find the mapping 
function that is used to map the input variable 
(X) with the output variable (Y).
The main aim of unsupervised learning is to 
find the structure and patterns from the given 
input data.
12. Explain The Terms Precision And Recall?
Precision, also known as a positive predictive value, is defined as the fraction of relevant
instances among the retrieved instances.
Precision = TP/TP+FP
Where TP is true positive
FP id False Positive
Recall, also known as sensitivity, is defined as the fraction of relevant instances that were
Retrieved.
Recall  = TP/TP+FP.
Where TP is true positive
FP is False positive.
13. Differentiate Between L1 And L2 Regularization?
L1 Regularization
L2 Regularization
A regression model that makes use of the L1 
regularization process is called Lasso 
Regression.
A regression model that makes use of the L1 
regularization process is called Ridge 
Regression.
Lasso Regression adds the absolute value of 
the magnitude of coefficient as a penalty term 
to the loss function.
Ridge regression adds the squared 
magnitude of coefficient as a penalty term to 
the loss function.
It tries to estimate the median of the data.
It tries to estimate the mean of the data.
14. Explain Fourier Transform?
The Fourier transform is a way to split something up into a bunch of sine waves. In terms of
mathematics, The Fourier Transform is a process that can transform a signal into its respective
constituent components and frequencies. Fourier transform is used not only in signal, radio,
acoustic, etc.
15. What Is The F1 Score? How To Use It?
The F1-score combines both the precision and recall of a classifier into one single metric by
taking the harmonic mean. It is used to compare the performances of two classifiers. For
example, classifier X has a higher recall, and classifier Y  has higher precision. Now the
F1-scores calculated for both the classifiers will be used to predict which one produces the
better results.
The F1 score can be calculated as
2(P*R)/(P+R)
Where P is the precision.
R is the Recall of the classification model.
Machine Learning Interview Questions And Answers
16. Differentiate Between Type I And Type II Error?
Type I Error
Type II Error
It is equivalent to a False positive.
It is equivalent to a False negative
It refers to non-acceptance of hypothesis
It refers to the acceptance of the hypothesis
There can be a rejection even with an 
authorized match.
There can be an acceptance even with an 
unauthorized match.
17. Can You Explain How A ROC Curve Works?
The  ROC curve is represented graphically by plotting the true positive rate (TPR) against the
FPR (False Positive rates). Where
1.
The true positive rate can be defined as the proportion of observations that are predicted
to be positive out of all the given positive observations (TP/(TP + FN))
2.
The false-positive rate is defined as the proportion of observations that are predicted
wrongly to be positive out of all the given negative observations.
(FP/(TN + FP))
18. Differentiate Between Deep Learning And Machine Learning?
Deep Learning
Machine Learning
It is a subset of Machine Learning
It is a superset of Deep Learning.
It solves complex issues.
It is used to learn new things.
It is an evolution to Machine Learning.
It is an evolution of AI.
Here, algorithms are largely self-depicted on 
the data analysis
Algorithms are detected by the data analysts.
19. Can You Name The Different Machine Learning Algorithms?
Different machine learning algorithms are listed below:
1.
Decision trees,
2.
Naive Bayes,
3.
Random forest
4.
Support vector machine
5.
K-nearest neighbor,
6.
K-means clustering,
7.
Gaussian mixture model,
8.
Hidden Markov model etc.
20. What Is AI?
AI (Artificial intelligence) refers to the simulation of human intelligence in machines that are
programmed to reflect like humans and imitate their actions.
Examples: Face Detection and Recognition, Google Maps, and
Ride-Hailing Applications, E-Payments.
21. How To Select Important Variables While Working On A Data Set?
1.
You have to remove the correlated variables before selecting important variables.
2.
Make use of linear regression and select the variables based on their p values.
3.
Use Forward Selection, Stepwise Selection, and Backward Selection.
4.
Use Random Forest, Xgboost, and plot variable importance chart
5.
Use the Lasso Regression
6.
You have to select top n features by measuring the information gain for the available set
of features.
22. Differentiate Between Causality And Correlation?
The Causality explicitly applies to the cases where action A causes the outcome of action B.
Correlation can simply be defined as a relationship. Where the actions of  A can relate to the
actions of B, but here it is not necessary for one event to cause the other event to happen.
23. What Is Overfitting?
Overfitting is a type of modeling error that results in the failure to predict or guess the future
observations effectively or fit additional data in the model that already exists.
24. Explain The Terms Standard Deviation And Variance?
A standard dev
... (truncated)

--- FILE 2 ---
Common Job Interview Questions and Answers
1. Tell me about yourself.
You'll encounter some version of this question in almost eve ry behavioral interview. This
question is an opportunity for the interviewer to get to know you, your background, and
what led you to apply for the position.
Your interviewer has probably already read your resume. Whe n answering this question,
don't feel the need to include every professional experienc e you've ever had. Instead, think
about the most important experiences you'd like to highligh t and how the role you're
interviewing for ﬁts in.
"This question allows you to tell the interviewer things the y can't read on your resume," says
Laura Mills, head of early career insights at Forage. "For in stance, you might share a lifelong
passion that is interesting, and you can parlay it into an opp ortunity to introduce a
characteristic, experience, or skill that shows motivatio n, perseverance, or a success factor."
"Craft a compelling narrative, but only share the pivotal ch apters of your professional
journey that led you to this moment," says Shahrukh Zahir, th e founder of Right Fit Advisors.
You can frame your answer by talking about your professional past, present, and future to
tell a cohesive story of your career experience.
Mills shared an example with me of a candidate who answered th is question by talking
about his experience playing hockey in college:
  "I once had a candidate that shared how he was passionate abou t hockey, but when he got
to college, found the club hockey team was suspended due to di sciplinary issues. He took
the initiative to work with the administration and gain perm ission to reconstitute the team.
He integrated this into his answer to this question by saying , 'I am passionate about hockey
and am grateful to have been able to grow my leadership, motiv ation, and commitment
through both high school and college hockey. Hockey has taug ht me discipline and
teamwork and these skills have transferred to all other aspe cts of my work and personal
life.'"

2. Why did you apply for the job?
"Mention what speciﬁcally attracted you to the job, such as t he company's mission, culture,
or the responsibilities of the position," says Margaret Buj , principal recruiter at Mixmax.
"Beyond surface appeal, this is where you showcase your alig nment with the company's
ethos, mission, or the challenges they are trying to solve," Zahir says.
Think about why you want this speciﬁc job, aside from the obvi ous beneﬁt of a paycheck. If
the responsibilities for the role are exciting to you, pick a few to call out and explain why
you'd enjoy doing them. If you're feeling stagnant in your cu rrent role and think this role will
be more challenging, say so and explain why.
Buj provided this example answer:
"I applied for this job because I've been following [Company Name] for quite some time, and
I'm genuinely impressed by the innovative solutions and gro undbreaking work you provide
within the [industry]. Your company's reputation for pushi ng the boundaries in
[industry-speciﬁc innovation or area] has consistently ca ught my attention.
I am particularly drawn to [Company Name] because of your unw avering commitment to
[speciﬁc aspect that aligns with your values]. In my career, I've always been passionate
about [that speciﬁc aspect] because it's not just about the w ork; it's about making a
meaningful impact. Your company's dedication to this align s perfectly with my own values
and interests.
What excites me most about this opportunity is the chance to c ontribute to [Company
Name]'s mission. I believe that my background in [relevant s kills or experience] will enable
me to make a signiﬁcant contribution to the continued succes s and growth of your team.
I'm eager to be part of a company that is not only a leader in the industry but also a place
where I can learn, grow, and help drive innovation in [indust ry]."

3. What are your greatest strengths?
"I'd want to hear where they are most comfortable and what the y really enjoy doing," says
Amy Spurling, founder and CEO at Compt. "I want to hear what ma kes them happy to wake
up and jump into things in the morning."
"Highlight strengths that are relevant to the job and back th em up with speciﬁc examples
from your previous experiences," says Buj.
She provided this example answer:
"One of my greatest strengths is my ability to analyze data an d derive actionable insights. In
my previous role at [Previous Company], I led a project that i nvolved analyzing market
trends, and my recommendations resulted in a 15% increase in sales within six months."
4. What are your weaknesses?
"Employers are trying to determine how you handle difﬁculty and challenges with this
question. It is important to choose a real weakness to share, " says Mills.
Mills suggests framing your answer to this question in the fo llowing way: name a weakness
you have, explain the steps you have developed to mitigate it , and provide examples of how
taking those steps has helped you improve in this area.
5. Why do you think you’re qualiﬁed for the position?
"When responding to this question, there's always going to b e a temptation to try and win
the interview by demonstrating that you are the most compete nt candidate that is being
interviewed," says Jeremy Grunfeld, director of student su ccess at Forage.
"It's important for students to realize they can take the pre ssure off themselves. You do not
need to be the most technically competent candidate to be the successful candidate," he
continues.
When recruiting for early-career roles, employers seek to r educe costs by hiring candidates
who are likely to stay at the company for a longer time period, Grunfeld adds. Employers
recognize that technical skills can be taught on the job. Eve n if you're not the most

technically skilled candidate, if you can convey your authe ntic interest in the role, the
company may be inclined to hire you.
When answering this question, Grunfeld advises: "Demonstr ate that you are the most
passionate person about the position and that you've taken t he time to learn about the
skills required to succeed in that role."
"I want to hear that they have done some research on the role an d company and where they
think they would be able to have an impact," Spurling says.
"Point out how your skills, experience, and qualiﬁcations a lign with the job requirements. Be
speciﬁc," says Buj.
Grunfeld provided this example answer:
"Say your prior experience was at a bank, and now you're apply ing to Walmart. You might
say that while you were building a particular product at the b ank, you got to see ﬁrsthand
how you as a software engineer can build a product that has an i mpact on millions of
people's lives. You now want to take that to Walmart, where yo u're not just impacting
millions of people's lives but you're impacting their abili ty to feed their families.
Demonstrate a connection between the prior experiences you 've had and how you are
passionate about the organization and the role."
Buj provided this example answer:
"I believe I am well-qualiﬁed for this position because of my extensive and highly relevant
experience. Over the course of [number of years] years, I've accumulated a deep expertise
in working with [speciﬁc technology or skill] — a fundamenta l requirement for success in
this role.
In my previous positions, I've consistently demonstrated m y proﬁciency in [speciﬁc
technology or skill]. For example, I successfully [mention a signiﬁcant achievement or
project related to the technology or skill], where I [descri be the tasks or challenges you
encountered and overcame]. This experience has not only sol idiﬁed my technical
capabilities but has also equipped me with the ability to nav igate and innovate in this
domain effectively.

Furthermore, my role at [Previous Company] involved a range of responsibilities that are
strikingly similar to what is expected in this position. For instance, I was responsible for
[describe similar tasks or responsibilities], where I cons istently met or exceeded
performance expectations. This experience has given me val uable insights into the
intricacies of the role and has prepared me to excel in the cha llenges and opportunities it
presents.
I'm conﬁdent that my combination of hands-on experience, te chnical expertise, and my
ability to adapt to similar responsibilities make me a stron g ﬁt for this position. I look
forward to bringing this skill set to [Company Name] and cont ributing to its continued
growth and success."
6. What are your salary expectations?
Your response should show you've researched the market rate for the role, according to
Spurling.
"If they can ask, 'What is your compensation philosophy and h ow have you determined the
salary range for this role?' I will know they align with how we view compensation and pay
equity within our organization," Spurling says.
7. What motivates you?
"A conﬁdent interviewee realizes that the interviewer just wants to get to know them for
who they are," Grunfeld says. "The usual response from an int erviewee in this scenario is to
try and answer by saying what they think the interviewer want s to hear. The best
interviewees will be the ones who answer this question with a uthenticity."
He gave this example answer:
"If competition is what motivates you, you might tell the sto ry of how you once gave a
rousing speech to motivate your team to win a state champions hip basketball game.
This may not seem relevant to the role you're applying to, but it allows the interviewer to
move to more informal questioning because they're interest ed in the story. You will then be
able to follow up with more true and authentic stories."

8. What are your reasons for leaving a job?
"The general and sound advice is to articulate your motivati ons for leaving your current job,
emphasizing the positive aspects for considering a move," s ays Karl Cremin, the co-founder
and director of Talentspot Recruitment.
"To really di
... (truncated)